# About the author

Tyler James Frazier ([tyler-frazier.github.io]()) is a Lecturer in the Data Science program at William & Mary.  His research and teaching focus on the use of data science methods to describe, analyze, model and predict the behavior of our planet's human population and its associated development patterns and processes as well as our larger complex and adapting social and economic system.  Prior to joining William & Mary in the summer of 2015, Tyler has held academic appointments at the Santa Fe Institute, the Technical University of Berlin and the Center for Development Research in Bonn. He also previously held visiting acadmeic positions at the Technical University of Munich and the University of Ghana, Legon.  His research has been supported by funding from the Volkswagen Foundation, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and the German Federal Ministry of Education and Research. 

Dr. Frazier received his Ph.D. in Geography from the University of Bonn, Germany in 2011, a Masters in City and Regional Planning from the Georgia Institute of Technology in 2001, and a Bachelor of Arts in Architectural History from the Savannah College of Art and Design in 1999.  In 2001, Tyler gained admission to Georgia Tech's Masters of Mechanical Engineering program, but instead decided to begin his career in land use planning, development and management.  Prior to beginning his doctorate in the fall of 2006, Tyler worked for both private and public land use planning institutions in both Georgia and Florida.  He is a certified member of the American Institute of Certified Planners (AICP) and in the past has regularly been accepted as an expert witness on land use matters during both judicial and quasi-judicial proceedings in Georgia and Florida.

For a comprehensive resume of his work, please see this [curriculum vitae](tyler-frazier.github.io).